This week on Bold Names, he's the CEO of
Lamborghini, Stefan Vinkkelman. His cars
are seemingly everywhere from songs
[music]
driving Lamborghinis
>> Hollywood blockbusters.
>> Will you be wanting a backpini
then?
>> Much more subtle.
>> Even my kid nephew has a couple toy
versions. But in reality, Lamborghini
only delivers about 10,000 vehicles a
year. So, how does Stefan keep these
dream machines so relevant? That's next.
[music]
Stefan, welcome to the show. I'm
curious, who is the typical Lamborghini
owner?
>> I have to say that uh we are getting
more and more young people behind
uh the steering wheel of a Lamborghini.
Now, the average age is below 45. The
youngest customers we have uh in Asia
followed by the Americans and the oldest
are here in Europe. They are mainly
male. We have around about 7 to 8%
also female drivers which is very
welcome. Most of our customers they love
made in Italy. They love those type of
cars. They usually entrepreneurs or CEOs
of big companies. But we also have a lot
of uh movie stars uh uh artists in
general and also sports stars. So we
have a bit of all and and we have a lot
of fans uh even without a driver's
license.
>> Absolutely. I I I will say that I was
visiting with my six-year-old nephew the
other day and he was showing me his
Lambo collection. You know, he keeps it
next to his Pokemon cards and I felt
like that is kind of indicative of of
maybe where he's going to go. He's going
to get into crypto so he can finally
afford a Lamborghini when he hits 16.
>> But you would know about who these
customers are. I mean, you're not only
the CEO, but this is your second stint
as CEO of Lamborghini. Early in your
career, a typical I mean, you you worked
with uh more mainstream brands like Fiat
in certain European markets. And I
wonder how is it your job different
running Lamborghini which does what
10,000 vehicles a year versus a
mainstream uh car company which maybe
does 10,000 vehicles in a factory in a
week or something like that. I mean this
is like a different kind of mindset that
you have to show up to the job. I have
to imagine
>> this is something which for sure is a
much more entrepreneurial job but let's
say the contact with the customer or the
dealers is something which is always
about relationship. It's clear that the
smaller the brand the more you have to
focus on the single customer and this is
something which in my opinion is the uh
paramount for our success. When you go
into brands which are around us, you are
selling mobility. We are selling dreams.
So for us, this is the major difference.
So you buy a Lamborghini because you
desire to have one of our cars, not
because you need it, but because maybe
it's a a dream which you have since your
childhood. And this is something which
is very difficult to achieve because we
have when we develop our car always to
go the extra mile. We have to
overachieve the expectations. It should
be a dream of many and a reality of few.
And if we achieve this, then we have
done a good job.
>> And since you've returned, Lamborghini
has been on something of a tear. What's
been driving that?
>> You know, after co there was for sure uh
a clear strategy from our side. We
wanted to renew all the product lineup.
Uh we said we want to be more
sustainable but even more performing
than the generation before with a
complete new design. So complete new car
and this is something we achieved by
having all the lineup plug-in
hybridized. This means that our V12 now
is a plug-in hybrid car and also uh the
UOS is a plugin and also the the follow
the UAN which is now a V8 turbo car with
a plug-in hybrid. So this was a clear
strategy which we kicked off at the end
of 2020, beginning of 21 and this is
something which the customers
appreciated
and also the fact that we have a brand
which is increasing in value. We have a
very stable and balanced distribution in
the major areas of the world. So the
main regions we're not pushing cars into
the market but we always selling
scarcity and this after a period of time
is uh not paying out and we increase the
volumes but we always had let's say an
order bank which was solid which was at
least one year long. So between ordering
a car and delivering the car, you always
have at least uh one year and so far it
worked out.
>> And I definitely want to talk more about
hybrids with you and I'm actually
interested in getting deeper into the
the used car market because I think
that's a fascinating development in
recent years. But first, let's talk
about 2025. What's the mood of the
supercar buyer? On one hand, the stock
market for some is doing very well, but
there's also some uncertainty about the
economy.
>> But if we look uh into
the global situation of the markets,
there was this bubble which was lasting
until let's say the year 2023. So there
was this enthusiasm and this yolo
effect. No, you only live once. uh which
was very uh important for all the brands
but it was also important at that time
not to overdo it and not to think that
this was the new reality. So we knew
from the very beginning that sooner or
later there would be a saturation of the
market and therefore since 23 the market
is uh decreasing a bit and for us this
was meaning that we looked into uh what
was happening very carefully and uh we
have the let's say the positive effect
that we have new cars stepping in so new
models yes in a more competitive market
but so far for us uh it's still working
out for sure. What is changing is that
we have in this year u the euro US
dollar effect which is affecting our
let's say our margins we have the euro
with the Japanese yen which is affecting
our margin and we have the tariffs which
was not foreseen at the beginning of
2025 in the US market.
>> Yeah. So you come out of co there's a
bubble of enthusiasm among buyers who
you only live once they want to get a
Lamborghini to fulfill those dreams and
then you you're seeing a little bit of a
slowdown since 2023 and then you get
into 2025 and I think I want to hit on
this tariff issue in particular you had
to raise prices right in the US to deal
with that did that affect your customer
>> so for sure we we uh have increased the
price a bit but not to the same level as
the increase of
the tariff. So there is still a gap
between the two numbers and for sure
there is a way of thinking more about
what and when to buy. But we also
strongly believe that this is going to
be only uh for the time being and then
the market if there are no major changes
in the economy uh will get back to a
pace which is similar of before. So we
see uh some uh slowdown in the market so
far
>> but this is something which we were
expecting at the beginning and now we
have to see by the beginning and the
first half of 2026 what is going to
happen?
>> Did you ever consider moving production
from Italy to the US? I the US is your
largest market uh by by unit sales. Um
was that ever on the table? No, because
we have let's say our strength is the
made in Italy. We are producing a bit
more than 10,000 cars on average in the
last years. So this would be something
which is uh not logical in terms of
economy but also in terms of what the
customers are expecting. The customers
are expecting the original. They're
expecting the car being produced here,
not in Italy, but more than in Italy,
here in Santon
and therefore we have uh the majority of
the customers which at least once come
to visit the factory before uh their car
is produced or while the car is in
production.
>> How many customer what percentage of
your customers do you think come to the
factory? I mean they got to pick out the
interiors, the leather or whatever,
right? I mean it's got to be a lot of
fun to sit down.
>> We have a studio here in in target which
is called a personum studio studio where
they can individualize their car and
this is happening every day and this is
very positive for us. But back to what
you asked at least
let's say once they come to visit when
they are our customers. You're getting
into a big moment for the company in the
first quarter of 2026.
Uh customers are finally going to be
able to take delivery of of your newest
offering, the Teamario. Did I get that
correct?
>> Yeah. Teamario. Yes.
>> And that's a that's Italian for what?
Fearless.
>> No. Tear is Yeah. It's courageous. No.
And it's the name of a of a fighting
book because the tradition Lamborghini
is to name the cars after fighting boots
because our logo has the bull in it. So
therefore it's a tradition that we are
picking is the name of our fight team
bull and tidal is one of them.
>> This is a hybrid offering right. Uh the
engine from its predecessor goes down to
a a V8 from a V10. Uh but it still has a
lot of that performance. I don't know if
a customer would actually notice it. Uh
I haven't had a chance to drive it yet,
but what I've read still seems to be
pretty impressive. Why why hybrid? Is
this all because of government
regulations around the world or um is
there a huge demand for hybrid among
supercar buyers?
>> There is no period in the history of
Lamborghini which is without challenges.
>> So be it economically or technically or
regimentally
or that wise there's always something
which is happening and for sure the
effect of sustainability is something
which is affecting the world. So we said
hybridization
can be a good opportunity to lower the
CO2 emissions, but it has to be done in
a way that the performance is increasing
and the combination of an internal
combustion engine and a powerful battery
with electric motors is giving you the
opportunity al to be even more
performing.
And one of the base briefings I gave or
we gave to ourselves when we were
developing those cars is that if you go
on a race track and you have a battery
which is uh uh at 100% or even less and
you do hot labs so fast labs and you go
back into the pit lane the battery never
has to be empty. Why? Because it always
has to be at your disposal for
performance. because if it empties uh if
you empty the battery you uh drive
around with additional weight which is
not what we want. So this is exactly uh
what I see as a benefit in terms of
sustainability but even more in terms of
high performance electric vehicles.
>> One of the challenges with hybrid is you
really have you kind of have two
powertrain systems going on in there,
right? got the traditional gasoline or
petrol or diesel powered uh engine and
then you've got all the components
needed for the battery uh part of the
vehicle. Some people would say go all
electric and I know you as a company
have been talking about all electric. I
think in 2023 you had you announced
plans for an all-electric offering, but
then I think that the the the future
became a little murky for the Lanzador,
right? That's the right name for that.
What you're talking maybe it'll be
hybrid instead. What what are you
deciding? So what we decided or when we
we decided with this strategy of Cortal
to have first all the cars plug in
hybrid and then part of the cars also uh
full electric uh
>> what we always do is uh market analysis
and depth and what we saw is not only
for our type of cars but in general
there is a flattening of the acceptance
of full electric cars generally
worldwide. Right. And this is even more
valid for our type of cars. So the first
decision we took is that the follow of
the U which today is a plug-in hybrid
car is not going to be in the next
generation which is coming out in 2029.
Um a full electric car but again a
plug-in hybrid car with another V8 V8
engine.
>> Right. And for the Lador, so the model
number four, we are going which yeah we
are going to decide very soon in the
next weeks. This is something we are
going to decide and uh because this is a
car which is then going to be um
delivered starting from 2030. So from
the end of this decade. So we have to
decide pretty fast uh whether we go full
electric or also plug-in hybrid with
this one.
>> I mean you you are kind of getting at
one of the challenges that the entire
automotive industry has at the moment.
Not just the the top of the top like
yourself, but trying to figure out where
the market's going many years in
advance. This isn't like a cell phone
that's going to come out next year. This
is something that takes many years to
develop and you're not quite sure where
the market's going, right? I mean, I
think if we were having this
conversation 5 years ago, kind of the
rise of Tesla and the success it was
having with C customers and and also
regulators around the world was the idea
that everybody was going to go to all
electric, but uh we've seen a slowdown
in that. When do you feel like you saw
the market change? There's a forecast in
terms of the adoption rate of full
electric cars and percentage year on
year and if you see that this is
flattening and then it's something which
is obvious and for us in our type of
segment today there are very few
manufacturers which have fully cars and
they are not uh as successful as they
were expecting to say the least. Right?
So for us [laughter]
>> especially in that luxury space right
>> exactly because you buy this car as we
said no because you dream of it and you
want to have the sound of the engine and
this is something which with electric
car is difficult to have. So we have to
see on our side we wouldn't be ready but
if the market is not ready if the
customer is not ready then it's useless
to do something uh which is uh uh
technologically
possible but uh very few people then are
willing to buy. So for us technology and
innovation is paramount for the success
of the future but not in every sense. So
for the electric engine this is not the
case.
>> I mean it's an interesting situation
right? You got the European market with
the EU and the UK market and these
regulators there, lawmakers there have
banned uh gasoline power vehicles or
petrol as you diesel cars. Uh in 2020 in
2035 though I know in the EU there's a
huge effort to lobby to change that but
it is part of the mix right one of the
challenges you've got is to try to
appeal to the buyer who wants to spend a
lot of money. Is that what they want?
And then you've got regulators around
the world pushing towards
electrification of the automobile and
it's just not quite sure if everybody's
in alignment yet.
>> Very true. And this is not the only it's
not only about regulation and let's say
the the technology but it's also about
infrastructure is about green energy for
a lot of you and about cost.
>> Yeah. I mean, you hit on this earlier in
the conversation where just Lamborghini
or any automaker, it's always a
challenge. There's always challenges,
right? Whether it's technological,
geopolitical, the markets, uh you're
part of a a larger company, a Volkswagen
based in Germany. And it's uh tough to
be a European automaker these days. Uh
especially with kind of the the rise of
Chinese competitors. Uh that's not your
space really. I mean, you're you're
playing in rarified air, but I'm curious
if you've got a view of the larger
automotive market these days. Is it
going are we going into kind of a
winter?
>> I can speak for Lamborghini, you know.
So, [laughter]
Lamborghini is in a good position, but
for sure we are living in a market which
you know the global automotive market is
80 plus million cars delivered each and
every year.
uh when we speak about the segment we
are in, we are bit more than 100,000
globally spread all over the place. So
it's very difficult to make forecast to
see where the where the market is going
because the change can be from one day
to the other. So we are always very
careful and uh for us the most important
thing is to safeguard the brand they
made in Italy and to have a car which is
always very much matching with the core
values of our brand and with the
expectation for sure of the customers.
>> I just saw a new study out from Boston
Consulting Group and DuPont Register
Group that actually predicts that the
ultra luxury car market in the US is
going to rise dramatically in the next
decade. the total market value they
think is going to go up about 60%.
That's for vehicles that sell between
170,000 to to half a million and the
hyper luxury market something even
higher than half a million. They expect
that to grow too. The study did a survey
of of owners and shoppers for these kind
of vehicles. In fact, the consideration
was higher among millennials in Gen X uh
for Lamborghini than maybe previous
generations, which is I think getting at
what you were saying is you're seeing a
younger uh buyer come into the market.
And the interesting thing they found,
and I'm wondering if you see the same,
is that younger buyers are seeing these
vehicles more as an investment where
maybe older buyers were motivated by
technological innovation and just owning
the latest thing. I I'm curious, do you
have insight into what's driving younger
buyers into your vehicles?
>> Yeah, you're you're right. You're right.
As more and more the buyers see uh the
car is not only as something which is
nice and uh exciting while driving it or
looking at it but also an investment
because they want to see how the
residuals are. Back in the times it was
less uh this way it was more about
enjoying the car and being proud to own
one of those cars.
>> Okay. I wonder where you see the brand
in the next decade and beyond. What is
your hopes for it?
>> For me, it's uh important that uh the
brand is always matching at least the
expectations of our customers and
knowing as also you said no it's getting
more and more difficult to make a
a preview of what is going to happen in
the years to come. I hope that uh we are
never failing our forecast in terms of
technology and if this is the case uh
the brand will be a shining star even
more than today with cars which are
matching or overachieving expectations
also in the years to come.
>> Well Stefan, thank you so much for
making time. I look forward to talking
to you more about Lamborghini in the
future.
>> Thank you.